So let me briefly, for the next five or
so minutes, tell you about some sample
business problems that why people are so
exited about analytics.
And then I'm gonna get into
kind of the heart and meat,
which are some applications
of some firms today.
So here's probably, as I travel around and
talk to companies all over the world,
kind of one of the most important
problems that people want to answer is
the advertising attribution problem.
Or if you'd like, how much is
each piece of advertising worth?
Or what is the ROI of advertising?
So imagine you're sitting here listening
to this marketing analytics course on
Coursera, and imagine you say, I have
a budget of $100,000 to spend on marketing
for my firm, do I wanna spend it on TV?
Do I wanna spend it on radio?
Do I wanna spend it on banner ads?
Do I wanna spend it on
search engine marketing?
Well, how do you figure out
the ROI of each of these?
And this is a classic example of
an applied area that people are spending
a lot of time thinking about.
Unfortunately, the state of the art out
there today or not the state of the art,
kind of common practice out there
today is what's called last-click
attribution which is wherever the last
thing you did, that gets you the credit.
In other words, if the last
thing I did before I bought your
product was hear a radio ad, well, it
must have been the radio ad that did it.
But if you actually
think about that logic,
what made you listen to that radio ad
as opposed to changing the station?
Or let's imagine you see a banner ad, you
don't click on the banner ad and buy, but
you click on the banner ad,
and then you buy a day later.
Or imagine you do a Google search,
if any, use your favorite search engine,
imagine use a Google or Bing search, and
now all of a sudden, you know
the set of alternatives out there.
And so what's really important for
attribution is understanding the entire
path of things that people are seeing.
So here is an example of a data
set that I've worked on before.
Let's actually start at the end of the
date set, and let's work our way forward.
Imagine you have a conversion at a site.
So for example, on the example I've
given you here is an automobile site.
And so imagine someone has converted,
meaning they've actually set up
an appointment to test drive a car.
Unfortunately in the United States,
you can't actually buy a car online, but
you can actually design your car, and
you can send that for a quote to a dealer.
They consider that a conversion, but
imagine I knew everything about your
path that you did prior to converting
at the site, like I knew you went to
Edmunds.com and viewed an ad,
I know you went to CNN.com, and
you were targeted with an ad, I know you
went to Kelley's Blue Book and saw an ad.
I know you went to a Google search, then
I know you went to an advertiser's site,
and finally,
you actually converted at that site.
And so at the end of the day,
last-click attribution would say give
all the credit to the click-through at
Google, but that might not be right.
All of those things, all the ads that you
saw before that may be what has led you to
actually go to Google, do that search, go
to the advertiser, and eventually click.
So again,
that's one of the most important problems.
Another problem I loved studying was,
I actually spent about a year working on
a project with ESPN,
the worldwide leader in sports,
and one of the things, this had to do with
the 2010 World Cup, the soccer tournament,
which was the largest,
as people know I think,
the World Cup soccer is the most
broadcast and watched event in the world.
And one of the events they wanted
to answer through analytics was,
if they launch a mobile platform,
would that cannibalize their TV viewing,
and would it cannibalize
people streaming online, and
would it cannibalize those
people going to ESPN.com?
Now the reason that's an important
business problem, and I'm sure many of you
face this problem as well, is if one
channel cannibalizes the other channel,
that may not be a bad thing if
the other channel's more profitable,
but mobile ads are much less
valuable than other ads.
You can charge a lot more for
TV ads than you can charge for mobile ads.
And if mobile ads are cannibalizing,
then that's a bad thing.
So this was a question
that ESPN wanted to know,
if they launched a mobile channel to watch
the World Cup, would that cannibalize?
This is the basic problem of
what's called GRPs in marketing,
what are called Gross Rating Points.
So the idea that ESPN wanted to understand
is they have two things in mind, reach,
they wanna reach as many
customers as possible,
in this case with World Cup content.
And frequency, they want those customers
to watch as much content as possible.
So reach is, if you like, what fraction of
households are gonna watch any content,
and frequency is the volume of content.
You multiply those things together,
you get GRPs.
Now why does ESPN care about GRPs, because
they charge money for advertising and
the more GRPs they have,
the more they can charge for advertising.
So this was an analytics problems that was
how does the addition of another channel
affect the total number of GRPs that
ESPN can serve, and here's the findings.
It's one of those findings that's obvious
after the fact, but maybe not obvious
beforehand, which is, yes, if you launch
a mobile channel for your firm, doesn't
have to be ESPN, you will definitely
cannibalize your other channels.
But let me just say, and by the way,
this could be mobile sales.
If you sell more on mobile,
will you sell less online?
The answer's probably, but
let me say two things about that.
Number one, it's better for
you to cannibalize your own sales than for
someone else to cannibalize your sales.
And secondly, what they found is, even
though, and ESPN found this, and I have
found this more generally true, through
analytics, even if the mobile channel does
partly cannibalize your other channels,
the total volume actually goes up.
And the way it worked for the ESPN World
Cup is there was intraday cannibalization,
meaning, if I spend more time on
my mobile phone on a given day,
I am gonna watch TV less on that day,
but overall,
I'm giving you an additional
channel to engage with my firm.
This is one of the really strong
application areas of analytics today is
the fact that you can measure people
across multiple channels if you like.
TV, mobile, web, streaming video means
what matters is the total engagement.
You don't worry as much about profit
maximization for each channel, and
imagine the same thing is true in sales.
If you have online and offline sales,
you shouldn't be worried about,
well, if I launch online,
is that gonna cannibalize my store?
Well, maybe.
But what you should care about
is the total profitability, and
it's the interplay between the two.
And it's only through improved data and
analytics can you assess that problem.
The next one is something as you know,
I'm a big golf fan, and so
I spend a lot of time thinking of golf.
And this is a question,
how valuable are price discounts?
And I want to frame my answer
to this in the way of golf.
But again, this is seminal question that's
being asked today through analytics.
So here's an example.
Obviously, my name is Eric.
Imaging you send a price promotion
to Eric about playing golf, and
let's imagine I'm a price sensitive
customer, so I golf more.
That's true.
So one of the things you could do is, you
could measure the fraction of people or
the number of people
you send coupons to for
golf discounts, and
you could see whether they play golf more.
My view view is,
that's exactly the wrong answer and
will underestimate
the effect of discounts.
Now the question is why?
Well, most people don't
golf by themselves.
So for example, if you send me a discount
for golf, I might play golf more, and
then I'm gonna call three
of my friends up and say,
hey it's a foursome, let's all play golf.
Well, that initial coupon needs
to get the credit, not just for
me playing golf more, but for
my friends playing golf more.
And there was an empirical
study done about,
if you like, the value of your social
network, and it was founded that about
two-thirds of the value of discounts tends
to be for the person you send it to.
But about one-third of that value is
by the friends that they talk to.
Now, of course, how do you know that?
You know that because you
would have to have data
on who Eric talked to once you sent them.
Now where do you get that data from?
Well, you can collect that
information from Facebook today.
There actually are firms out there,
I know this is gonna sound creepy,
that you can put an app on your phone that
actually can measure your conversations.
And of course, you know that
you're signing up for this app.
But the ability to measure
word of mouth today
gives us a much better view of
the value of marketing today.
And again, there may be customers that are
more valuable than other customers, it's
not just because they react to marketing
more, but because they tell more friends.
In other words,
they not only internalize the marketing,
they externalize it to their friends.
So think about it, these problems of who
should I give the marketing credit to.
Do channels cannibalize each other?
And what's the value of a discount?
These are seminal marketing problems,
that up until recently,
through the collection of better data,
were unanswerable questions.
You could answer them in aggregate, but
you could never measure them
at the individual level.
The last one I want to talk about
is what is the ROI of Facebook.
And this probably is a problem
many of you are dealing with.
In other words, is more likes or
mentions valuable?
And the way I always like to frame it is,
of course.
Who wouldn't want their
product liked more?
But I claim that's
the wrong business problem.
And here's why it's
Because imagine instead of data set
where you not only have the likes,
but you also have
the online ad someone saw.
Imagine you also had
the television ad someone saw.
Imagine you also had Facebook,
what they saw on Facebook, and
imagine you also had purchase data.
Well, if you run a regression of
purchase data on Facebook likes,
I guarantee you, products that have more
likes on Facebook, will be bought more.
But that's not the question,
that's not why Facebook is worth,
as of today, 70 billion.
It could be 75, 80 billion tomorrow,
is that most people believe that Facebook
information contains data that online and
television don't tell you.
So that means, if I run a regression of
trying to predict purchasing of online or
television with also
including Facebook data,
that Facebook would have a significant and
positive coefficient.
That means even if I know how much you do
online, even if I know how much television
ads you see, knowing how many
likes you saw on Facebook for
a given product helps me
predict purchase data more so
than just traditional online or
television advertising.
That's the magic of customer
attribution and customer level data.
If you have this data, you can start
to decompose, is it the banner ads,
is it the television, is it Facebook?
Over and over again from the data sets
that I've analyzed shown that actually
Facebook does have predictive power above
and beyond just traditional advertising.
But the only way to address that again,
is through better data.
So again Facebook and online have
greater short-term effects, and
this part's probably not that surprising.
The part that's probably
interesting to you is viewing a TV
ad has longer term effects.
What I mean by that is,
if you see a Facebook ad and
you see a like in your Facebook feed,
in your news feed,
you're probably gonna say oh,
I'm glad my friend likes this product.
But five, ten minutes later,
you're probably gonna forget about it.
TV, on the other hand,
has a much longer effect.
The part that's the most fascinating
to us is that markets are efficient.
What I mean by that is if a television
ad costs a thousand times a Facebook ad,
the economic value of a television
ad is a thousand times the economic
value of a Facebook ad.
Meaning, basically,
the amount you spend divided by the amount
of impact is basically constant
across these different channels.
And we were definitely surprised
that markets were efficient,
we did not expect that to be the case.